[docs] Create SliderUnstyled docs (#31850)
mui/material-ui: docs/data/base/components/slider/slider.md

---
product: base
title: React Slider unstyled component and hook
components: SliderUnstyled
githubLabel: 'component: slider'
waiAria: https://www.w3.org/TR/wai-aria-practices/#slider
packageName: '@mui/base'
---

# Slider

<p class="description">Sliders allow users to make selections from a range of values.</p>

> Sliders show a range of values along a bar, from which users may select a single value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sliders show a range of values along a bar, from which users may select a single value, or a range.
```

Not sure how to phrase that users can select a range too, for example from the sliders with two thumbs.

They are ideal for adjusting settings such as volume, brightness, or applying image filters.

{{"component": "modules/components/ComponentLinkHeader.js", "design": false}}

```js
import SliderUnstyled from '@mui/base/SliderUnstyled';
```

{{"demo": "UnstyledSlider.js", "defaultCodeOpen": false}}

## Discrete sliders

> Discrete sliders snap to the nearest step.
> You can generate a mark for each step with `marks={true}`.

Reviewer 2: Let's make this more informative. Also, I think "stop" is a better term than "step" (which implies vertical movement), following [the usage in this article](https://babich.biz/mobile-ux-design-sliders/).

```suggestion
The most basic slider is _continuous_, which means it does not have pre-defined (_discrete_) values for the user to select from.
This is suitable for situations in which an approximate value is good enough for the user, such as brightness or volume.

But if your users need more precise options, you can create a discrete slider with pre-defined stops along the bar.
To generate a mark for each stop, use `marks={true}`:
```

> {{"demo": "DiscreteSlider.js"}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{"demo": "DiscreteSlider.js", "defaultCodeOpen": false}}
```

Author: In this case (and below), we're showing the usage of a prop, not a method of customization. The code that is described is included in the preview, so I decided to leave the preview visible.

### Custom marks

> You can have custom marks by providing a rich array to the `marks` prop.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can create custom marks by providing a rich array to the `marks` prop:
```

> {{"demo": "DiscreteSliderMarks.js"}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{"demo": "DiscreteSliderMarks.js", "defaultCodeOpen": false}}
```

### Restricted values

> You can restrict the selectable values to those provided with the `marks` prop with `step={null}`.

Reviewer 2: This is a tricky sentence. I'm going to try rephrasing it for clarity.

```suggestion
If the user should only be able to select from the values provided with the `marks` prop, add `step={null}` to disable all other options:
```

> {{"demo": "DiscreteSliderValues.js"}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{"demo": "DiscreteSliderValues.js", "defaultCodeOpen": false}}
```

## Range slider

> The slider can be used to set the start and end of a range by supplying an array of values to the `value` or `defaultValue` prop.

Reviewer 2: Rephrasing from passive to active voice.

```suggestion
To let users set the start and end of a range on a slider, provide an array of values to the `value` or `defaultValue` prop:
```

> {{"demo": "RangeSlider.js"}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{"demo": "RangeSlider.js", "defaultCodeOpen": false}}
```

## Accessibility

(WAI-ARIA: https://www.w3.org/TR/wai-aria-practices/#slider)

The component handles most of the work necessary to make it accessible.
However, you need to make sure that:

- Each thumb has a user-friendly label (`aria-label`, `aria-labelledby` or `getAriaLabel` prop).

> - Each thumb has a user-friendly text for its current value.

Reviewer 2: What does "thumb" refer to here? I don't see this word used anywhere else in the document. Is this the accepted term for the control itself?

Author: Good point - we haven't introduced this term before. It may be worth having an image explaining the anatomy of a slider, similar to https://material.io/components/sliders#anatomy. Other controls would benefit from it too.
@danilo-leal, would you agree?
